[Blog] CSS Backdrop Filter (#1038)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/backdrop-filter/index.md

---
title: "CSS backdrop-filter"
subhead: |

>   Enabled in Chrome 76

Author: totally agree. i struggled here, lemme noodle some more.

>   Enabled in Chrome 76

Author: i changed it to "Unleash 60fps transparent designs"
thoughts?

>   Enabled in Chrome 76

Author: renamed it again to "Unleash 60fps blurry translucency across your UI's"

date: 2019-06-25
authors:
  - adamargyle

> hero: hero.jpeg

Author: agreed, found one, check it out, had to visit outside unsplash

alt: Women behind frosted glass
description: |
  CSS backdrop-filter was made famous by Apple's design team. It brings
  the ability for a background to apply a filter to the contents beneath.
  Creates a nice layering effect that keeps beneath elements in context.
tags:
  - post
  - CSS
  - backdrop-filter
---

> Designers and developers alike can celebrate as a long awaited CSS feature [releases in Chrome 76](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120): backdrop-filter. Frosted glass effects, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, and more, no longer require [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter).

Author: you know, i authored it that way, but after prolonged rereading i ended up not liking it. like i didnt feel it added anything. curious other's thoughts? i dont feel strongly about it, so i'm willing to accept the commit offering.

> Designers and developers alike can celebrate as a long awaited CSS feature [releases in Chrome 76](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120): backdrop-filter. Frosted glass effects, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, and more, no longer require [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter).

Author: i like a lot of it, but the ending isn't there yet. it's not a new css property, chrome is late to this game by a long shot. safari's had it since like 2015 or something, and edge since 2018. i was pretty intentionally leaving it out how far behind Chrome is. 

i agree the ", and more, no longer.." is an awkward transition. needs improvement.

> Designers and developers alike can celebrate as a long awaited CSS feature [releases in Chrome 76](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120): backdrop-filter. Frosted glass effects, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, and more, no longer require [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter).

Author: intro paragraph updated:

> Designers and developers alike can celebrate as a long awaited CSS feature [arrives in Chrome 76](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120): `backdrop-filter`. Until now, [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter) were required to create the effects that backdrop-filter provides: frosted glass, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, etc.

You may recognize the effect from two popular operating systems: [Windows Vista](https://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/s--9RLXARU4--/c_scale,dpr_2.0,f_auto,fl_progressive,q_80,w_800/trgz8yivyyqrpcnwscu5.png) and [iOS](https://static.businessinsider.com/image/51fd2822eab8eae16e00000b-750.jpg). Now [Chrome](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120) can do it too.

The following video demonstrates `backdrop-filter` and each individual filter:

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-kitchen_sink.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     <a href="https://codepen.io/robinrendle/pen/LmzLEL" target="_blank">CodePen</a>

Author: i left them all as simple links since all the data was there at the destination if they wanted it. like, what does original codepen mean, we're not showing a codepen? it does feel more courteous to include the authors name in the caption. maybe we go with "[CodePen](#) by Robin Rendle"?

>     <a href="https://codepen.io/robinrendle/pen/LmzLEL" target="_blank">CodePen</a>

Reviewer: Sure that works

  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Technical Details
{% Aside 'key-term' %}
  backdrop refers to all painted content behind the element, except when the ancestor has filters, opacity or [a few other documented properties applied](https://drafts.fxtf.org/filter-effects-2/#BackdropRootTriggers).
{% endAside %}

CSS `backdrop-filter` applies one or more filters to the backdrop of an element, leaving the contents unchanged.

> In order for the filter to apply any augmentations, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Alternatively, consider that opaque elements will not produce a backdrop-filter effect while fully transparent elements produce a full filtered backdrop.

Author: is it the word opaque? i feel like that word confuses people alot, cuz it doesnt sound like what it is. 

the 2 states you mention, and that this is trying to articulate, is: works and doesnt work. the first sentence is the money shot, gotta have some transparency. 2nd one is the opposite strategy at explaining it, coming from it saying you can't be solid. not sure showing an example of a solid div not showing a blurry background would add much? 

maybe some commas will help the sentence? i agree it's a tiny bit tricky, which is why i spend specific time in the article explaining the condition.

> In order for the filter to apply any augmentations, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Alternatively, consider that opaque elements will not produce a backdrop-filter effect while fully transparent elements produce a full filtered backdrop.

Author: wdyt

> In order for the backdrop-filter to have any effect, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Therefore, overlaying elements without any transparency will produce no backdrop-filter effects.

> In order for the filter to apply any augmentations, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Alternatively, consider that opaque elements will not produce a backdrop-filter effect while fully transparent elements produce a full filtered backdrop.

Reviewer 2: Better. My problem is that I'm having trouble picturing it. More precisely, I don't know where anything is on the z-axis. So, from back to front is it:

background -> filter -> overlay(with transparent portions)

> In order for the filter to apply any augmentations, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Alternatively, consider that opaque elements will not produce a backdrop-filter effect while fully transparent elements produce a full filtered backdrop.

Author: cool, if this is that hard to visualize, lemme make an image to compare them visually and just nip it

> In order for the filter to apply any augmentations, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Alternatively, consider that opaque elements will not produce a backdrop-filter effect while fully transparent elements produce a full filtered backdrop.

Author: ![backdrop-filter](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1134620/60286612-c1909200-98c4-11e9-8a91-3a427328c39b.png)

> Backdrop-filter shares attributes with CSS filters in that they create a new [stacking context](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/zindex.html) and/or [containing blocks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) when the property is used properly, aka it's not 'none'. Note, only elements with absolute and fixed position decendants will get a containing block.

Author: i felt it got really old and wasnt adding any value to consistently put backdrop-filter into a fence. does webdev have a pattern here to follow? like all css properties and values are wrapped in fences no matter what? even in headlines?

> Backdrop-filter shares attributes with CSS filters in that they create a new [stacking context](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/zindex.html) and/or [containing blocks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) when the property is used properly, aka it's not 'none'. Note, only elements with absolute and fixed position decendants will get a containing block.

Author: yeah, it's the technical aspects in the technical section. figure the folks who need/want the tech specs will get it, and folks who just want pictures can skip it. i link to the really deep stuff and do my best to just state the technical gotchas. i feel it's highly relevant, curious what makes you feel it's not relevant to a reader?

### Summary
1. Overlaying element OR it's background must be at least partially transparent
1. Overlaying element will get a new stacking context

> 1. Filters may be combined

Author: 👍

{% Aside 'warning' %}
  The backdrop-filter feature is computationally intensive, as are filters in general, so it may impact the performance of sites using it.
{% endAside %}

> ## Using backdrop-filter

Author: interesting, how come?

> ## Using backdrop-filter

Author: changed it entirely to "Essentials," which feels better for what the section articulated. thoughts?

> ## Using backdrop-filter

Reviewer 2: I like 'essentials'. It's pithy and descriptive.

> Get started in one line of CSS.

Author: sentence was removed in previous edit 👍

### Single Filter

```css
.blur-behind-me {
  backdrop-filter: blur(.5rem);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-rgb.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://codepen.io/netsi1964/pen/JqBLPK" target="_blank">CodePen</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ### Combining Filters

Reviewer: I kind of feel like this header and the one after could use a bit of text. Otherwise the post feels a bit thin, like it's mostly a collection of codepens.

Author: what kid of more text? i could see more being there sure. 

the post i think it healthily mostly visual examples and links to code. this feature is interesting because of what it can do visually, figured that's what most people will be interested in. the code for it is minimal and not exciting, the results are. 🤷‍♂

Reviewer 2: Also, are there not little bits of wisdom to share about these values. Examples include, problems they might run into, what they're useful for, what they're not good for.

Author: hm, struggling to find wisdom for under the headings. will continue to riff.

```css
.brighten-saturate-and-blur-behind-me {
  backdrop-filter: brightness(150%) saturate(150%) blur(1rem);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-ambient_blur.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://codepen.io/pepf/pen/GqZkdj" target="_blank">CodePen</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### iOS Frosted Notifications

```css
.frost {
  backdrop-filter: blur(.25rem);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-ios_notifications.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://s.codepen.io/robinrendle/pen/ZoXGgG" target="_blank">CodePen</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Conclusion

> Better late than never! Safari's had this feature since 2015. Regardless, Chrome's excited to release it in 76. The [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/497522) has **560+ stars** on it, clearly marking it as a desired web design capability.

Author: whatcha think of?

> Chrome's excited to release backdrop-filter in 76. The [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/497522) has **560+ stars** on it, clearly marking it as a desired web design capability.

Here's a final CSS API list and additional resources in case you're ready to start developing.

> ### Overview

Author: cool, makes sense

> ### Overview

Author: update will be reflected in next PR push

```css
/* Keyword value */
backdrop-filter: none;

/* URL to SVG filter */
backdrop-filter: url(commonfilters.svg#filter);

/* <filter-function> values */
backdrop-filter: blur(2px);
backdrop-filter: brightness(60%);
backdrop-filter: contrast(40%);
backdrop-filter: drop-shadow(4px 4px 10px blue);
backdrop-filter: grayscale(30%);
backdrop-filter: hue-rotate(120deg);
backdrop-filter: invert(70%);
backdrop-filter: opacity(20%);
backdrop-filter: sepia(90%);
backdrop-filter: saturate(80%);

/* Multiple filters */
backdrop-filter: url(filters.svg#filter) blur(4px) saturate(150%);

/* Global values */
backdrop-filter: inherit;
backdrop-filter: initial;
backdrop-filter: unset;
```

### One more demo

> A glimpse into the now possible in Chrome:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A glimpse of what's now possible using `backdrop-filter`:
```

I'm not sure if this demo is strong enough to warrant its inclusion. The prior demos seem to cover it.

Author: nice to see them all together is what i felt. agree it could be pulled. will chat with other's about it 👍

Reviewer 2: I completely agree with Rob.

Author: cool, it's gone then!

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  {% YouTube 'MWHBpReeAJ0' %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Demo by <a href="https://ferdychristant.com/please-help-make-backdrop-filter-a-reality-f81805ba3d52" target="_blank">Ferdy Christant</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Additional Resources

> - [Specification](https://drafts.fxtf.org/filter-effects-2/#BackdropFilterProperty)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`backdrop-filter` Specification](https://drafts.fxtf.org/filter-effects-2/#BackdropFilterProperty)
```

Reviewer 2: I disagree.

> - [Proposal](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/353)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`backdrop-filter` TAG proposal](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/353)
```

Author: why add the context, it's already the context?

Reviewer: I was thinking a couple reasons: it's nicer for screen reader users who are navigating by links (https://web.dev/labels-and-text-alternatives/#links), and since this is a long list of links and there are a few different link types (the codepen link points to a collection of tags, the css-tricks link points to a blog post) it might help folks disambiguate. Also a bit of personal preference, I thought it looked a bit nicer having more context in the list. But this is probably good question for @mfriesenhahn

Reviewer 3: I tend to agree with Rob: I want to have a clear sense of where a link will take me before I click. At the very least, I'd want to know the proposal is at TAG, the spec at W3C, etc. Though I can see the argument for not repeating `backdrop-filter` on every line. Also, to Rob's point about the links pointing to different kinds of things: I'd be more explicit about what those things are. For example, "Codepens using `backdrop-filter`"

Author: how about instead of me packing all that data into the link, i use subtext? then each link can be expanded upon without feeling like it's overloading the link? or do you both prefer long links? 

maybe it's worth us creating a pattern for this too, since i assume a dump list of links at the end of an article is pretty common?

> - [GitHub](https://github.com/mfreed7/backdrop-filter-feature)

Reviewer: What is this a github link to? Can you include that in the link text?

Reviewer 2: It's documentation for the feature. I would remove it. When we're the first implementor, such links are usually the only content that exists. Since we're late to the game, we need to devote our attention to making the MDN page accurate and up to date.

Author: cool, github link is gone!

- [Chrome Platform Status](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120)

> - [Caniuse](http://caniuse.com/#feat=css-backdrop-filter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`backdrop-filter` on Caniuse](http://caniuse.com/#feat=css-backdrop-filter)
```

Reviewer 2: Use the MDN data. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/backdrop-filter#Browser_compatibility

Author: turns out MDN is wrong and caniuse is right. still want me to only send to MDN?

Reviewer 2: I'll get MDN fixed. Is anything other than Chrome/Opera out of date?

Reviewer 2: Here's the PR: https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/pull/4387

> - [API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/backdrop-filter)

Reviewer: Suggest removing and just making sure you link this up at the top.

Author: removing those 4 or the whole section?

Reviewer: removing the mdn link

> - [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/the-backdrop-filter-css-property/)

Reviewer: Linkify the title of the post

> - [Codepens](https://codepen.io/tag/backdrop-filter/#)

Reviewer: Maybe linkify [\`backdrop-filter\` CodePen tag]

---

> title: "CSS backdrop-filter"

Author: i agree the title could be better, but maybe it could be something like "CSS backdrop-filter official release"? this is the general response from folks, since the css feature is 3 years old or so and has been mildly usable all that time. i'm struggling with titles that dont compete with the subtitle. and i feel like the subtitle is the better place to expand upon the concept. 

maybe a title more like "Chrome Lands Stable CSS backdrop-filter"? or "Chrome 76 Stabilizes CSS backdrop-filter"?

🤔

> title: "CSS backdrop-filter"

Reviewer: I'd suggest steering away from calling it an official release because other folks could point out that it's been released in other browsers for quite some time so it might sound presumptuous for Chrome to decide when something is "officially" released.

We really want web.dev to feel browser agnostic so I think highlighting what the feature gives folks (translucent effects in CSS) without singling out any one browser in the title would be good. Thomas' post on dark mode is a good example of this: https://web.dev/prefers-color-scheme/

It highlights the feature and then uses the post as an opportunity to get the topic on people's radars again and list the browser support (which now includes Chrome). I think a good way to do that is to include a version number when you mention Chrome and the other browser. For example, "This is supported in Chrome 76, Safari, Firefox, ..."

subhead: |
  Unleash 60fps blurry translucency across your UI's
date: 2019-06-25
authors:
  - adamargyle
hero: hero.jpg
alt: View through rain covered foggy window
description: |
  CSS backdrop-filter was made famous by Apple's design team. It brings
  the ability for a background to apply a filter to the contents beneath,

>   and creates a nice layering effect that keeps beneath elements in context.

Author: trying to give a short definition of the effect and why it's useful

>   and creates a nice layering effect that keeps beneath elements in context.

Reviewer 3: It's the "keeps beneath elements in context" phrase that's giving me trouble. Does that mean something like "keeps the underlying elements visible"?

tags:
  - post
  - css
  - backdrop-filter
---

> Designers and developers alike can celebrate as a long awaited CSS feature [arrives in Chrome 76](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120): `backdrop-filter`. Until now, [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter) were required to create the effects that backdrop-filter provides: frosted glass, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, etc.

Author: what does chrome focused mean? this is a new chrome supported feature

i'm personally not seeing added value/clarity in the reworked sentence, but am open to discussing it more.

> Designers and developers alike can celebrate as a long awaited CSS feature [arrives in Chrome 76](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120): `backdrop-filter`. Until now, [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter) were required to create the effects that backdrop-filter provides: frosted glass, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, etc.

Reviewer: > what does chrome focused mean? this is a new chrome supported feature

I think the idea is, similar to how MDN feels like reference docs for the entire web (not specifically Firefox), we want the articles on web.dev to feel like they apply to the entire web (not just Chrome). So there are two things going on:

1. A new feature has landed in Chrome and we want to tell people about it
2. But we don't want to seem like we're just the Chrome announcement channel. We want to be inclusive of other browsers.

I think the best technique I've seen for doing this is to use the timing of the Chrome launch as an opportunity to write a new tutorial on the topic and in the tutorial mention the support levels—which now includes Chrome version 76. As I mentioned before, Thoma's dark mode post is a good example of this where he has this block of text:

>At the time of writing, prefers-color-scheme is supported on both desktop and mobile (where available) by Chrome and Edge as of version 76, Firefox as of version 67, and Safari as of version 12.1 on macOS and as of version 13 on iOS. For all other browsers, you can check the Can I use support tables.

The post gets the topic on people's radar again and into their social feed. It bubbles it to the top of their stack and helps satisfy that 1st point. Then we mention the support levels in the post itself to satisfy the 2nd one.

The following video demonstrates `backdrop-filter` and each individual filter:

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-kitchen_sink.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    <a href="https://codepen.io/robinrendle/pen/LmzLEL" target="_blank">CodePen</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Technical Details
{% Aside 'key-term' %}
  backdrop - the painted content behind the element.
{% endAside %}

CSS `backdrop-filter` applies one or more filters to the backdrop of an element, leaving the contents unchanged.

In order for the backdrop-filter to have any effect, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Therefore, overlaying elements without any transparency will produce no backdrop-filter effects.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
  <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop-filter.png" alt="2 comparisons where one is opaque and the other has transparency and therefore blurred translucency">
</figure>

> Backdrop-filters are like CSS filters. When the property is not 'none', a new [stacking context](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/zindex.html) and/or [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) are created. Note, only elements with absolute and fixed position descendants will get a containing block.

Author: These are pretty much the only technical details in the whole article, and it's 1 paragraph of niche complexity about edge cases and footguns. I feel they need to be there so it's not just a pretty pictures article because it offers a tiny glimpse into the advanced knowledge of the property. thoughts? i'm semantically ok with putting the comments into an aside, but visually and academically i dont think it's a good idea. 🤷‍♂️ 

when reading about a new css property, wouldnt you want to know the details about common foot guns and quick tidbits that'll save you hours later?

> Backdrop-filters are like CSS filters. When the property is not 'none', a new [stacking context](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/zindex.html) and/or [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) are created. Note, only elements with absolute and fixed position descendants will get a containing block.

Reviewer 3: Right, I didn't mean to suggest this be _omitted_; I agree that it's important for readers to understand common pitfalls. My worry is that the post doesn't yet make explicit what those pitfalls _are_. For example, why is important to know that this property creates a new stacking context and containing block? What problems might that cause for you if you weren't expecting it? I think that'll make this info more actionable for newer devs.

<div>

>   <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/backdrop-filter" target="_blank" class="w-button w-button--secondary w-button--with-icon" data-icon="school">

Author: i liked it better visually, felt like a button to the docs and broke up the content nicely. but meh, made it into a sentence so buttons can be buttons and links can be links.

    Full API on MDN
  </a>
</div>

### Summary
- `backdrop-filter` can apply one or more filters to an element
- The overlaying element must be at least partially transparent
- The overlaying element will get a new stacking context

> {% Aside 'warning' %}

Author: tons of guidance on performance considerations already, so yes, guidance on that topic will exist for a long time, it's very tricky and nuanced.

`backdrop-filter` may harm performance.
{% endAside %}

## Essentials

### Single Filter

```css
.blur-behind-me {
  backdrop-filter: blur(.5rem);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">

Author: disagree, though i appreciate where you're coming from. the goal here isn't to tell them how to interact with a codepen, it's to learn what backdrop-filter is capable of. the codepen can take care of training it's users.

>   <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">

Reviewer 3: That's what I'm proposing: editing the CodePen. Its instruction text is kinda confusing.

    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-rgb.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">

>     <a href="https://codepen.io/netsi1964/pen/JqBLPK" target="_blank">CodePen</a>

Author: i'd prefer to keep them minimal and referential as opposed to alt text type text. i'll write a brief explanation above the figure for context instead (per a previous suggestion to expand on a couple sections)

  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://codepen.io/pepf/pen/GqZkdj" target="_blank">CodePen</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Creative Examples

### Overlays

```css
.modal {
  backdrop-filter: blur(10px);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-modal.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://mfreed7.github.io/backdrop-filter-feature/examples/scrollable.html" target="_blank">Demo</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Text Contrast on Dynamic Backgrounds

```css
.background {
  filter: invert(1);
}

.foreground {
  backdrop-filter: invert(1);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-invert_color.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://tympanus.net/codrops-playground/huijing/Qqpwg5Iy/editor" target="_blank">Codrops</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ### Censorship

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Sensitive content overlay
```
I suggested the edit because this situation isn't really what censorship means.

```css

> input:not(:checked) ~ .censor {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
input:not(:checked) ~ .sensitive {
```

  backdrop-filter: contrast(4) blur(20px);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">

>     <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-censorship.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Reviewer 3: I know they're Lego figures, but I'm not super comfortable with showing a serial killer as a joke. Like, I can see people taking that as, well, insensitive. I like the idea of a joke here though. Maybe a safer (and probably equally funny) gag would be to show something that is definitely _not_ graphic? Like something that would show up on r/eyebleach, say?

Author: if we dont like this demo, i'll need to go find a new one. i didnt create the lego demo there, i just captured it and linked to it. not really my joke either, it's codrops. if we want a cute reveal like you describe, i'd need to go build it, host it, capture it, then swap it out here in this article. i'm not super keen on that, but understand.

Reviewer: hm yeah +1 to Michael's point. Maybe a bit too dark :D

Reviewer: Maybe we can omit the sensitive content overlay?

Author: yeah, removing it is the best idea, there's enough examples in there

Reviewer 3: SGTM

  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://tympanus.net/codrops-playground/huijing/6cZVcORz/editor" target="_blank">Codrops</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Conclusion

> Chrome's excited to release `backdrop-filter` in 76. The [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/497522) has **560+ stars** on it, clearly marking it as a desired web design capability.

Reviewer 3: To the earlier discussions about making this more agnostic, could this paragraph be reframed to focus on what backdrop-filter will let people do? Maybe something like: "Cross-browser support for `backdrop-filter` has been a long time coming. But now that it's here, there's a new world of design possibilities, which can make web apps feel more like polished native apps than ever before." Or something. Basically, trying to get this to be less "yay, Chrome" and more "yay, new tool to play with."

> <figure class="w-figure">

Reviewer 3: As with the examples above, I think this figure needs a sentence of setup so I know what it's showing me.

  <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/translucent-chrome.png" alt="Translucent Chrome logo over a dark gradient">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://dribbble.com/shots/1224915-Roundaque-Icons-Closeup-Chrome" target="_blank">Source</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ### Additional Resources

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Additional resources
```

---
title: "CSS backdrop-filter"
subhead: |
  Unleash 60fps transparent designs
date: 2019-06-25
authors:
  - adamargyle
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Women behind frosted glass
description: |
  CSS backdrop-filter was made famous by Apple's design team. It brings
  the ability for a background to apply a filter to the contents beneath.

>   Creates a nice layering effect that keeps beneath elements in context.

Author: done

tags:
  - post
  - css
  - backdrop-filter
---

> Designers and developers alike can celebrate as a long awaited CSS feature [releases in Chrome 76](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120): backdrop-filter. Frosted glass effects, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, and more, no longer require [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter).

Author: nice, done

You may recognize the effect from two popular operating systems: [Windows Vista](https://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/s--9RLXARU4--/c_scale,dpr_2.0,f_auto,fl_progressive,q_80,w_800/trgz8yivyyqrpcnwscu5.png) and [iOS](https://static.businessinsider.com/image/51fd2822eab8eae16e00000b-750.jpg). Now [Chrome](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5679432723333120) can do it too.

The following video demonstrates `backdrop-filter` and each individual filter:

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-kitchen_sink.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    <a href="https://codepen.io/robinrendle/pen/LmzLEL" target="_blank">CodePen</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Technical Details
{% Aside 'key-term' %}

>   backdrop refers to all painted content behind the element, except when the ancestor has filters, opacity or [a few other documented properties applied](https://drafts.fxtf.org/filter-effects-2/#BackdropRootTriggers).

Author: nice, done 👍

{% endAside %}

CSS `backdrop-filter` applies one or more filters to the backdrop of an element, leaving the contents unchanged.

In order for the filter to apply any augmentations, some portion of the overlaying element needs to be transparent. Alternatively, consider that opaque elements will not produce a backdrop-filter effect while fully transparent elements produce a full filtered backdrop.

> Backdrop-filter shares attributes with CSS filters in that they create a new [stacking context](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/zindex.html) and/or [containing blocks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) when the property is used properly, in other words it's not 'none'. Note, only elements with absolute and fixed position descendants will get a containing block.

Author: thanks for guiding me into a betters solution here!

### Summary

> 1. The overlaying element OR it's background must be at least partially transparent

Author: changed to "The overlaying element must be at least partially transparent"

1. The overlaying element will get a new stacking context
1. Filters may be combined

{% Aside 'warning' %}

> The `backdrop-filter` property is computationally intensive, as are filters in general, so it may impact the performance of sites using it.

Author: nice, good call

    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-invert_color.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://tympanus.net/codrops-playground/huijing/Qqpwg5Iy/editor" target="_blank">Codrops</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Censorship

```css
input:not(:checked) ~ .censor {
  backdrop-filter: contrast(4) blur(20px);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-censorship.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://tympanus.net/codrops-playground/huijing/6cZVcORz/editor" target="_blank">Codrops</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Conclusion
Better late than never! Safari's had this feature since 2015. Regardless, Chrome's excited to release it in 76. The [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/497522) has **560+ stars** on it, clearly marking it as a desired web design capability.

Here's a final CSS API list and additional resources in case you're ready to start developing.

### Overview
```css

> /* Keyword value */

Reviewer 2: Just link to the spec or better yet to the [page on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/backdrop-filter). Bother are more likely to stay up to date than this article.

backdrop-filter: none;

/* URL to SVG filter */
backdrop-filter: url(commonfilters.svg#filter);

/* <filter-function> values */
backdrop-filter: blur(2px);
backdrop-filter: brightness(60%);
backdrop-filter: contrast(40%);
backdrop-filter: drop-shadow(4px 4px 10px blue);
backdrop-filter: grayscale(30%);
backdrop-filter: hue-rotate(120deg);
backdrop-filter: invert(70%);
backdrop-filter: opacity(20%);
backdrop-filter: sepia(90%);
backdrop-filter: saturate(80%);

/* Multiple filters */
backdrop-filter: url(filters.svg#filter) blur(4px) saturate(150%);

/* Global values */
backdrop-filter: inherit;
backdrop-filter: initial;
backdrop-filter: unset;
```

### One more demo
A glimpse into the now possible in Chrome:

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  {% YouTube 'MWHBpReeAJ0' %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Demo by <a href="https://ferdychristant.com/please-help-make-backdrop-filter-a-reality-f81805ba3d52" target="_blank">Ferdy Christant</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Additional Resources
- [Specification](https://drafts.fxtf.org/filter-effects-2/#BackdropFilterProperty)

> - [TAG Proposal](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/353)

Reviewer 2: I've never seen a TAG link in a web.dev or /Updates article. How is this useful for a web developer?

Author: i personally found it interesting and figured why put less resources? if people want to read more, this is a relevant item for that list. easily removed though, and if it's not normal, i'll pull it.
